---
day: 11
title: "Franklin, North Carolina"
location: "Franklin, North Carolina"
lat: 35.154
lng: -83.3816
mile: null
photos: []
---

Not much to write about today. Went ahead with the plan to take another zero day here in town. Mostly just relaxed at the hotel continuing to rest and rehab the lingering soreness in foot and knee. I don’t think that my shoes had anything to do with the early injuries, everything was just overuse and breaking into the new terrain, but I was interested in trying out boots, especially after stepping on so many roots the last few days. Three Eagles Outfitters turned out to be just about 100 yards up the hill from where I’m staying, I tried on some boots and ended up with a pair of Oboz boots – I really like the feel of the thicker sole and added ankle support. I added a pair of freeze dried meals and a new fuel canister and I got 10% off for being a thru-hiker.

Thru-hiking clearly has its benefits (discounts, easy hitchhiking) but for me, starting this late in the season, has some drawbacks. Several of the shuttle services used by thru-hikers in these early parts of the trail only seem to operate in March and April. I called the two free services in the guidebook looking for a ride back to Winding Stair Gap tomorrow and both were a no go. Looks like Three Eagles may be able to supply the wheels though, I’m going to stop by there in the morning to inquire and if nothing else hitchhike again. I’m looking forward to the next several resupply points being right along the trail, don’t like worrying about rides back and forth.

Anyway it was a boring day, I should be super close to 100% after another nights rest. Ready to get back out there.
