---
day: 88
date: 2013-07-30
title: "Hertline Campsite to Hamburg, Pa"
location: "Hamburg, Pa"
lat: 40.55692189640397
lng: -75.99831627662348
mile: null
photos:
  - 07-30-1960.jpg
  - 07-30-1962.jpg
  - 07-30-1963.jpg
  - 07-30-1965.jpg
  - 07-30-1966.jpg
  - 07-30-1967.jpg
  - 07-30-1968.jpg
---

Katahdin: 972.2

The nights are somehow already getting cooler and cooler. I thought when I took my three days in DC that I’d only be escaping one heat wave and that there would be more 90+ degree days ahead, but so far that hasn’t happened. I actually came out of my tent this morning with my jacket and wool hat on. By the time I’d had breakfast and packed though, the weather was perfect.

I went for an immediate dose of music and coupled with a few cups of coffee and some smooth trails the first six miles flew by. Landon and Miranda caught up around there and after a snack break we were off again; everyone was pretty much hiking alone today doing their own thing though. I was still high energy, pack light, and eager to get to Port Clinton to pick up my new backpack at the post office – I was absolutely flying through the middle stretch, probably close to 4mph even with a few rocks. It got rocky though pretty soon, they’re never far away in PA, and the swarming insects returned as well. The last 1/2 mile or so into town was one of the steepest downhills so far on the trail, but short and over before I knew it. Port Clinton is a tiny town, but the AT goes right through it and the post office was just yards off the trail. I picked up my package and since I knew I was well ahead of Landon and Miranda I went up the street to a local candy store (about the only store of any kind in town) and bought a gatorade, and all the cold Barqs rootbeer in the cooler (four cans). I took all my loot back down to where the AT enters town and started transferring gear to my new pack while waiting for the rest of the team. They were both pretty excited by cold rootbeer waiting for them when they arrived; Miranda even said she had been thinking how nice it would be if I had cold drinks waiting earlier in the day. I made one last trip to the PO to send home my old pack, then we walked about 0.3 miles along the trail to another road crossing where we were eventually able to get a ride east into Hamburg where there’s a Cabela’s, a Walmart, and every fast food restaurant imaginable. We hit up all three, and finally made our way to the Microtel next door to Cabela’s.
