---
day: 97
date: 2013-08-08
title: "Vernon, NJ to Wildcat Shelter"
location: "Wildcat Shelter"
lat: 41.26872809001616
lng: -74.26812121285508
mile: null
photos:
  - 08-08-1620.jpg
  - 08-08-1621.jpg
  - 08-08-1622.jpg
  - 08-08-1623.jpg
  - 08-08-1624.jpg
  - 08-08-1625.jpg
  - 08-08-1626.jpg
  - 08-08-1627.jpg
  - 08-08-1629.jpg
  - 08-08-1630.jpg
  - 08-08-1631.jpg
  - 08-08-1632.jpg
  - 08-08-1634.jpg
  - 08-08-1638.jpg
  - 08-08-1639.jpg
  - 08-08-1640.jpg
  - 08-08-1641.jpg
  - 08-08-1645.jpg
  - 08-08-1647.jpg
  - 08-08-1649.jpg
  - 08-08-1650.jpg
  - 08-08-1651.jpg
  - 08-08-1652.jpg
  - 08-08-1653.jpg
  - 08-08-1654.jpg
  - 08-08-1655.jpg
  - 08-08-1656.jpg
  - 08-08-1657.jpg
  - 08-08-1658.jpg
---

Enjoyed a breakfast of Dunkin Doughnuts and iced coffee at the church hostel before getting a ride back to the trail from Uncle Buck.

We thought we were going to be in the clear as far as the rocks are concerned after finishing up New Jersey, but that turned out to not be the case. We wrapped up NJ after a few miles and then started on New York. Instead of the rocky trails New York so far has featured a lot of huge side-of-the-mountain type rocks. Rocks several yards long and often with little traction and requiring big steps to navigate. There were quite a few places where we had to ascend or descend up treacherous rock faces and of course later in the day it started raining making things slippery.

Miranda was already nursing a bummed leg going into the day and ended up falling three times today. She’s said that she hates showing any weakness around other hikers, but I’m not sure how doing 17 miles through this terrain, over these rocks, while injured, is showing any weakness. Somehow after smacking each knee on rock and barely being able to use her wrist after one fall she manages to laugh it off, make jokes, get to the shelter where we find there’s no water and sing, “I’m So Happy.”

So it was quite a day. I’d been wondering if there would be a day where there wasn’t water available at the shelter, turned out to be today. Luckily I had decided to carry up a couple bottles of rootbeer so I had that to drink, but couldn’t cook what I had planned to have for dinner. Made due with other stuff like bagels, peanut butter, and candy, There’s a water source less than two miles North so it should turn out Ok tomorrow.
