---
day: 134
date: 2013-09-14
title: "Pinkham Notch to Carter Gap Hut"
location: "Carter Gap Hut"
lat: 44.266167270637816
lng: -71.19268995303264
mile: null
photos:
  - 09-14-499.jpg
  - 09-14-500.jpg
  - 09-14-501.jpg
  - 09-14-502.jpg
  - 09-14-503.jpg
  - 09-14-504.jpg
  - 09-14-505.jpg
  - 09-14-506.jpg
  - 09-14-507.jpg
  - 09-14-508.jpg
  - 09-14-509.jpg
  - 09-14-510.jpg
  - 09-14-511.jpg
  - 09-14-512.jpg
  - 09-14-513.jpg
  - 09-14-514.jpg
  - 09-14-515.jpg
  - 09-14-516.jpg
  - 09-14-517.jpg
  - 09-14-518.jpg
  - 09-14-520.jpg
  - 09-14-521.jpg
  - 09-14-522.jpg
  - 09-14-523.jpg
  - 09-14-524.jpg
  - 09-14-525.jpg
---

We were very slow getting out of town today, unfortunately an ongoing trend. The trail was brutal once we got going too. We had celebrated our successful run through the Presidentials, but quickly found that the other side of Pinkham Notch was just as rugged. It started with another ridiculous vertical ascent up into the Wildcat range. It was about two miles long and seemed unending. The Wildcat area is primarily ski mountains it seems, there was a working ski lift at the top of the climb, we could have taken a ride down to the restaurant below if time had allowed. We had been planning about 14 miles, but by the time we stopped for a break at the summit it was clear that was not going to happen. Instead we made it to the last in the series of White Mountain Huts, Carter Gap Hut. We had full food bags so we didn’t really need leftovers, just a spot to sleep. When we arrived though we got more than we bargained for.

Since it was a Saturday evening the place was packed with regular guests and there were about a dozen thru-hikers including us. We haven’t been able to escape this little bubble of thru-hikers no matter our efforts because almost all of them skip sections of trail at will. While we spending our evening coming down from the Presidentials in a thunderstorm, they were in town hanging out after taking the railroad down or getting a ride. Instead of going back to where they left off, they missed some of the most magnificent few miles of the whole trail. Anyway, a few of them are alright, but most of that sort are out here more for the parties in towns than the hiking. We are all at the hut though, and this hut crew provided amazing service to all of us thru-hikers. We were outside in the cold again during dinner but this time out of necessity, the hut was small and booked to capacity, there was no where to sit inside until people went to their bunks. Instead of ignoring us though, George the hut master brought bread out to us while people inside were still eating. A few minutes later he delivered a warm pot of pumpkin soup, and then finally invited us inside where they had tons of leftover turkey, steak, salad, and potatoes. Easily the best hut stay we’ve had. The only downside is again not being able to sleep until close to 10 and having to get up at 6 tomorrow. Worth it to be inside though and warm.
