---
day: 49
date: 2013-06-21
title: "Dismal Falls to Woods Hole Hostel"
location: "Woods Hole Hostel"
lat: 37.25374277323301
lng: -80.84768610788132
mile: null
photos:
  - 06-21-2853.jpg
  - 06-21-2854.jpg
  - 06-21-2855.jpg
  - 06-21-2856.jpg
  - 06-21-2857.jpg
  - 06-21-2859.jpg
  - 06-21-2860.jpg
  - 06-21-2861.jpg
  - 06-21-2862.jpg
  - 06-21-2863.jpg
  - 06-21-2865.jpg
  - 06-21-2866.jpg
  - 06-21-2867.jpg
  - 06-21-2868.jpg
  - 06-21-2869.jpg
  - 06-21-2872.jpg
  - 06-21-2874.jpg
  - 06-21-2875.jpg
  - 06-21-2876.jpg
  - 06-21-2877.jpg
  - 06-21-2880.jpg
  - 06-21-2881.jpg
  - 06-21-2882.jpg
  - 06-21-2883.jpg
  - 06-21-2885.jpg
  - 06-21-2886.jpg
  - 06-21-2887.jpg
  - 06-21-2888.jpg
  - 06-21-2889.jpg
  - 06-21-2890.jpg
  - 06-21-2893.jpg
  - 06-21-2896.jpg
  - 06-21-2897.jpg
  - 06-21-2898.jpg
  - 06-21-2899.jpg
  - 06-21-2900.jpg
  - 06-21-2901.jpg
  - 06-21-2902.jpg
---

Some of the most mentally agonizing parts of a thru-hike are walking side trails that don’t count toward the 2,185 to Katahdin. Plenty of the shelters, water sources, hostels, and scenic overlooks are either a ways down roads or blue blazed side trails. Usually they’re short but lately there’s been some longer ones. A couple days ago Jenkins Shelter was 0.3 miles off the trail and it’s water source was another 0.3 beyond that. The dismal falls campsite last night was also at least a quarter mile off the trail. So that’s how today started – a short walk back to the main trail after packing up camp.

I was pretty low energy this morning even though it was kind of a town day (into a hostel) and the terrain wasn’t challenging. I guess it was because I was up later than usual with the smores. I stopped at Wapiti Shelter for short break and an almond M&M snack which gave me a good boost for the approaching climb. I saw several more deer, a couple even stayed still for a little while but they were a good ways off in the forest. After the big climb the trail stayed up on a ridge the rest of the way to Woods Road; from there it was a half mile off trail again to Woods Hole Hostel. The place is awesome and normally offers home cooked meals made with the help of the guests, yoga, and massages, but per usual luck was not on my side. Learning from past experience and knowing that this place was an AT favorite I had called ahead to reserve an actual room (with a real bed rather the bunkhouse) from Atkins. I got the room and the bed (perhaps the most comfortable so far) but Neville and Michael who run the hostel are out of town for a wedding. Steven, a hospitality intern, is running the show while they are away; but that still means no meals or other extras. Neville did make some bread before she left today, and Steven makes smoothies, and there’s going to be pumpkin bread and coffee for breakfast. Still a great place to be but I’m sure it’s at its best with Neville and Michael here.

Bread and cheese wasn’t enough for hiker appetite to Strider, Elliot, Lauren, and I split the cost of a shuttle into Pearisburg and had dinner at another Mexican restaurant. Wasn’t long ago I was craving Mexican, now I’ve seen enough cheap, fake, bad Mexican to last the whole trip. Fun group though, and we all seem to be on a very similar pace which is great. Tomorrow is going to be an early morning and a short quick hike along the last of the ridge and town to Pearisburg. It’s going to be Saturday and the post office is only open from 10 until noon and I have to pickup a package, so the plan is 0.5 miles back to the trail, 10.6 along the AT and about 0.5 to the post office before noon.
