---
day: 50
title: "Woods Hole to Pearisburg, VA"
location: "Pearisburg, VA"
lat: 37.3279
lng: -80.7354
mile: null
photos: []
---

The Woods Hole beds were amazing, it was brutal having to get up before 7 am even though it was only a ten mile day. If it had been a weekday where the Pearisburg post office was open past noon I would have slept in. The pumpkin bread was fantastic and I had three cups of coffee to get some energy for the trail. Coffee is another thing I’m starting to like out here, I guess everything tastes better on the AT.

The hike was a breeze, mostly along the ridgeline again until the descent into town the last few miles. I made it to the post office about 11:30 and I wasn’t the only one picking up a package. Raven was already there, and Strider and DJ made it from Woods Hole by noon as well. The four of us sorted through our mail while waiting for Lauren and Elliot, now officially Bergie and Rambler (they kept changing trail names) to make to town. When they did arrive we all went to a Chinese restaurant with an all you can eat buffet for lunch. Most of the rest of the afternoon I got to hear Bergie and Rambler debate their itinerary plans. Strider and I were set on spending the night here and taking advantage of another slackpack opportunity tomorrow. Rambler wanted to join us, both for the slackpacking and so he could watch game five of the Stanley Cup. Bergie was dead set on hiking on five miles tonight and camping. It seemed like she had won out, but they stayed around planning out the whole week and eventually it was almost 7:30 and they decided just to stay in town. DJ and Raven had already left for the campsite so the four of us left in Pearisburg went back to the same Mexican restaurant as last night to watch the game. (The hotel TV doesnt have NBC – theres HBO, but no NBC). We played a bunch of pool and saw the Blackhawks take game five. After that it’s late, and i’m tired with another early wake up tomorrow so that’s all for tonight.
