---
day: 2
date: 2013-05-05
title: "Gooch Gap Shelter to Neel Gap"
location: "Neel Gap"
lat: 34.73496863023073
lng: -83.91793922146245
mile: null
photos: []
---

The wind was howling all night as I tried to sleep, and I was laying in the top bunk of the shelter, about 3 feet under the metal covered roof. I had earplugs but the rain continued all night and was still easily heard. Im not sure exactly how much sleep I got but it ended up being enough. However much it was, it came sporadically. I woke up to face the prospect of putting on wet clothes and another day of rain. I made oatmeal for breakfast, i had this bag of “maple” oatmeal, that while unopened, had been emitting strong maple smells. When i ate it though it tasted as plain as water.

I was packed and on the trail by 8:45, and looking to do another 15+ miles. The closest shelter was over 12 miles away but was in an area where you need a bear canister to camp. Neel Gap 3 miles farther not only didnt require a bear canister but had an outfitter with bunks, hot showers, and hot food. My knee had started hurting yesterday about 1/2 way thru the day, and it hurt again today, but the hot shower alone made it worth the effort. There was one steep climb today – Blood Mountain – actually coming down was worse than the climb. Most of the downhill was on sheer rock, slicked with rain and streams of water flowing down the mountain. Hoping that my knee gets better quickly… It has never even bothered me before, and now it starts hurting as soon as I start the AT.

Had dinner here at neels gap mountain crossing hostel. Pirate made a massive amount of spagetti for the five hikers staying the night. I have never eaten so much pasta at once. Hard to decide if the spagetti or hot shower was more welcome after 2 days and 31 rain soaked miles.
