---
day: 120
title: "Sherbourne Pass to Chateauguay Road"
location: "Chateauguay Road"
lat: null
lng: null
mile: null
photos: []
---

Never got around to writing this entry, I had a few notes written down, and I remember this was quite a day. Written on 12/6/13

We did a fairly quick two miles early in the day and made it to the outfitter where I was expecting a huge maildrop with all my winter gear. It wasn’t there. We all waited around, not only for my package, but just shopping at the store, having food, drinks, etc. I don’t think anyone really felt like hiking today. I made a few walks back and forth between the outfitter and the post office trying to find out where my package was. FInally I had to leave, and decided to figure out the winter gear situation late. We went on about 3 miles, and as we came to a road crossing there was a man driving a pickup truck who jumped out and started waving. He worked at the outfitter and had come to personally deliver the package to me on the trail since he knew I had decided to press on. Great service!

This was also the night that it ended up raining, pouring, and it was also the first time Miranda and Landon had to use their new tent. It was my first stealth camp of the whole trip too. They really had no idea how to set up their tent, I was now the veteran, and had to guide them through it during the downpour. The inside of the thing did get some water in it since it took a while to figure out, but we did ok. Still after a long few days, it only added to the misery. Miranda sounded to me like she was actually, truly considering quitting – something I couldn’t accept. I spent a lot of time thinking that night, I think I was awake long after the others, trying to imagine what I would do if Miranda quit the trail. Would I go with her, try to help however I could, comfort her; or would I go on to Katahdin now basically alone and without my new best friend at my side. I ended up writing a little poem for Miranda about making it to Katahdin. I guess it worked. We all kept going, but I still think it’s a good thing we weren’t near a road with cars on it this night.
