---
day: 9
date: 2013-05-12
title: "Muskrat Creek Shelter to Carter Gap Shelter"
location: "Carter Gap Shelter"
lat: 34.99957764292135
lng: -83.49387123012887
mile: null
photos:
  - 05-12-4164.jpg
  - 05-12-4165.jpg
---

Today was hands down the best day yet. The sun was out before I started hiking and quickly dried out the dampness left in my shirt from last evening. I was able to crank out 12 miles between 9:30 and 5. The terrain is definitely much more hospitable than it was in Georgia. There was only one real mountain to climb today and it was a gradual ascent up a wide switchbacking route, quite unlike the rolling up and down narrows of the previous week. The tendonitis is almost completely gone, the knee is nearly back to full strength as well, I feel a little tweak in it when I step on a loose rock but that’s about all. The biggest pain today was from stepping on so many roots. I think they’re from beach trees; in many sections its impossible to take a step without part of your foot landing on a root. They’re hard as rocks and always irregularly shaped. I was able to cruise right along though, the discomfort from roots was minor compared to the injuries of the previous week.

The shelter tonight is pretty quiet, and its supposed to get near freezing tonight. Getting to a town is probably the best feeling so far, but getting to camp and putting on my down jacket and wool hat has to be a close second. I remember researching gear and some people recommending against a down jacket. I’d have to say that’s crazy. So light, so warm! I sleep with it on, down jacket inside down sleeping bag, not even a chill. Easily my favorite piece of gear! Tomorrow will be a long, almost 16 mile day, but again only one real mountain, and the town of Franklin with restaurants, showers, and beds awaits at the end.
