---
day: 101
title: "Graymoor to RPH Shelter"
location: "RPH Shelter"
lat: 41.514684640052764
lng: -73.79226823980193
mile: null
photos: []
---

This stretch of trail near NYC is starting to spoil us again; a bit like all the campstores and waysides in Shenandoah did. There was another state park today and the AT had a side trail connecting to another lake, this one with a short order grill and ice-cream. It was pretty late in the day though, we arrived at the grill just minutes after 4 to the grill part closed. At first I was disappointed, but after having one of each of three flavors of Blue Bunny frozen fruit bars I was pretty glad I had been forced to go with the frozen stuff.

The miles between the lake and the shelter went by quickly. The terrain was smooth and since this was another shelter where a pizza place delivered we spent some time discussing what to order. We had it all picked out, ready to call as soon as we got there, but when we did arrive we soon found out that the restaurant was closes because it was Monday. Really seems like I have bad luck with anything that’s only open six out of seven days.

Actually the most eventful part of the day was finally getting to read the poem that Miranda had been brainstorming most of the day. She finished it up and showed it to me while I was cooking my pizza-substitute dinner of Mexican Rice and Chicken. About all I can say about the poem is that it’s a fine work of art and top secret. As it got dark all three of THF piled in my tent to watch the first half of The Molly Maguires. Someone had mentioned that the town Pottsville we were in a few days ago is where the hangings shown in the movie take place. I had already seen it, but Landon and Miranda were interested and seemed to enjoy the movie.
