---
day: 112
date: 2013-08-23
title: "Williamstown, MA to Congden Shelter"
location: "Congden Shelter"
lat: 42.7126
lng: -73.2032
mile: null
photos:
  - 08-23-1274.jpg
  - 08-23-1275.jpg
  - 08-23-1276.jpg
  - 08-23-1277.jpg
  - 08-23-1278.jpg
  - 08-23-1279.jpg
  - 08-23-1280.jpg
  - 08-23-1281.jpg
  - 08-23-1282.jpg
  - 08-23-1285.jpg
  - 08-23-1288.jpg
  - 08-23-1289.jpg
  - 08-23-1290.jpg
  - 08-23-1291.jpg
  - 08-23-1292.jpg
  - 08-23-1293.jpg
  - 08-23-1294.jpg
  - 08-23-1295.jpg
  - 08-23-1296.jpg
  - 08-23-1297.jpg
  - 08-23-1298.jpg
  - 08-23-1299.jpg
  - 08-23-1300.jpg
  - 08-23-1303.jpg
  - 08-23-1305.jpg
  - 08-23-1308.jpg
  - 08-23-1309.jpg
  - 08-23-1310.jpg
  - 08-23-1311.jpg
  - 08-23-1312.jpg
---

River Bend Farm turned out to be as good as expected. The whole place felt cozy and the beds were comfortable. Breakfast was granola cereal, muffins, toast, some really good jellies, yogurt, and berries. We met a couple folks from New Zealand who had also spent the night. We took our time getting ready, we only had 14 miles planned today and nothing too extreme for terrain. Around 10 we got a ride back to the trail.

One decent climb and four miles later we were in Vermont. Feels absurd to be this far North. I think I’m starting to feel like the end is coming and I don’t want it to be over. So far the AT has been everything I hoped for and recently more than I ever dreamed of. The fellow at breakfast from New Zealand asked a great question that I don’t usually hear, “what’s been the most surprising thing about the trail?” he wondered. I didn’t have a good answer at the time, but I thought about it today while hiking. The most surprising thing has been the people I’ve met and the friends I’ve made. I started out thinking I’d be hiking alone most of the time, meeting some interesting people, maybe making a few friends, but not really getting close to anyone. I’d researched all the gear, read all about the mental challenges, and the physical grind, I was ready for the hot humid days and cold nights, but I didn’t expect to meet anyone as amazing as Miranda. I had just gotten back to the trail from DC when she and her brother showed up at that hostel outside Harper’s Ferry and I’m not sure where I’d be today if she hadn’t. The days back then wore me out, I was tired and thinking of home; now hiking with her every day the miles fly by and the days pass like fleeting moments. I’m loving every minute of it and wishing it could last forever. There’s others too of course, Landon always keeping us up to date on shelter log goasip and ready with a silly joke, Strider who I camped with for 1000 miles and got me through the first half, Katie Wilderness – only a couple weeks on the trail together but seeing those enthusiastic texts gives me added motivation. It’s been said that I’m rather picky when it comes to who my friends are, but there have been quite a few on the AT who meet and exceed any standards I have, and that’s been the most surprising part of the trail.

Vermont is cool too! Only 10 miles in and so right now probably my favorite state. We’re in the Green Mountains now, and the forest is spectacular. We went by several ponds and nice streams already today and the weather was spectacular. There’s a lot of muddy trails here even though there hasn’t been much rain lately. It can be a bit slippery but it beats walking on rocks. The cool air and breeze felt great on the ascents and tonight the air is cold enough to bundle up with several layers. We’re seeing a few more southbounders lately and for the next 100 or so miles the AT and the Long Trail overlap, so there’s a few extra people around.
