---
day: 106
date: 2013-08-17
title: "Riga Shelter to Route 7"
location: "Route 7"
lat: 41.9323
lng: -73.3637
mile: null
photos:
  - 08-17-1386.jpg
  - 08-17-1387.jpg
  - 08-17-1388.jpg
  - 08-17-1389.jpg
  - 08-17-1392.jpg
  - 08-17-1393.jpg
  - 08-17-1395.jpg
  - 08-17-1399.jpg
  - 08-17-1400.jpg
  - 08-17-1401.jpg
  - 08-17-1403.jpg
  - 08-17-1404.jpg
  - 08-17-1406.jpg
  - 08-17-1407.jpg
  - 08-17-1408.jpg
  - 08-17-1410.jpg
  - 08-17-1411.jpg
  - 08-17-1412.jpg
  - 08-17-1413.jpg
  - 08-17-1414.jpg
  - 08-17-1415.jpg
  - 08-17-1416.jpg
  - 08-17-1417.jpg
  - 08-17-1418.jpg
  - 08-17-1420.jpg
  - 08-17-1421.jpg
  - 08-17-1424.jpg
  - 08-17-1426.jpg
  - 08-17-1427.jpg
  - 08-17-1428.jpg
  - 08-17-1429.jpg
  - 08-17-1430.jpg
  - 08-17-1431.jpg
  - 08-17-1432.jpg
  - 08-17-1433.jpg
  - 08-17-1434.jpg
  - 08-17-1436.jpg
  - 08-17-1438.jpg
  - 08-17-1439.jpg
---

We were awake at first light today by the other people staying around the shelter getting ready for sunrise. It was still 15 minutes away but the horizon was bright orange and already beautiful. Connecticut sprawled out below us, entirely shrouded beneath the early morning fog. Soon the sun was actually visible and started burning away the mist. It would have been a pretty good day to sleep in other than the sunrise though – right now I feel like I could have gone for that option.

We crossed into Massachusetts today, ten states complete! Only MA, VT, NH, and ME to go! There were three solid climbs today. Bear mountain was first and mostly just technically challenging on the downhill side. The descent was steep and rocky. Next was a longer more gradual climb up Mt. Race, and the third and steepest was up Mt. Everett. That third climb was all rocky, no switchbacks, and hot. Some day hikers had said the top was “amazing” but it was the kind of view we see on a daily basis. There were plenty of other day hikers, section hikers, and weekenders out on this part of the AT. I would lose track of the days of the week entirely out here it not for the greatly increased trail population on weekends.

Massachusetts has been pretty scenic so far. The crystal clear water sources are reappearing, the forest is changing, it definitely feels like we’re getting farther North now.

We spent a lot of time the last few days trying to figure out where to stay tonight. There were no well located shelters or campsites; we has originally planned on a hotel or hostel in town, but they were all either full or very expensive rates for the weekend tourist season. Totally by chance we ran into Uncle Buck at Route 7, our old acquaintance from the hostel in Vernon. He knew of a park near town where we could camp and he even drove us into town to stop at Subway before taking us to camp. Another nice bit of good luck and help from trail angels!
