---
day: 74
date: 2013-07-16
title: "Blackburn Center to Harpers Ferry, WV"
location: "Harpers Ferry, WV"
lat: 39.3254
lng: -77.7397
mile: null
photos:
  - 07-16-2189.jpg
  - 07-16-2190.jpg
  - 07-16-2191.jpg
  - 07-16-2192.jpg
  - 07-16-2193.jpg
  - 07-16-2194.jpg
  - 07-16-2195.jpg
---

Harper’s Ferry, situated at the meeting of the Shenandoah and Potomac Rivers, famous for the Civil War armory raid, and the unofficial halfway point on the way to Katahdin. 2185 / 2 isn’t exactly 1019, but Harpers marks the end of Virginia, the end of the entire South, and the transition into the North. It wasn’t easy getting here, particularly these last few days.

The heat is stifling. I left Blackburn today before 7:00 am, and I was glad I did, it was warm even that early. Mercifully, the climbing was minimal and I was able to make it through the rock fields and across the Shenandoah River before noon. There were no water sources along the 12 mile route and when I stopped by the Appalachian Trail Conference headquarters I was overjoyed to find 32 oz gatorades in the fridge, and the fridge was set COLD. It was the best gatorade yet, and I’ve had quite a few gatorades out here. After the drink and a little cooling off I had my picture taken for their “official” thru-hiker log book. I was number 1066 for this year.

Stepping back outside was wickedly hot, I was so glad to be in town and not out hiking. I headed to the historic downtown section and got a hamburger and a root-beer float at a little coffee shop style restaurant before checking in at the Town’s Inn. Not a cheap place by hiker standards but no where in Harpers with actual beds is. Hostels are good when they are out along the trail away from town, but sleeping in a real bed is what gives me enough energy for the next three or four days. This place seems worth it, especially given its location right next to the outfitter and all the town restaurants. The only thing lacking in the town is a food resupply, the Inn has a small store but small selection and high price was the norm. There’s some good opportunities for restaurants along the trail the next few days though so I didn’t need much.

The weather forecast looks abysmal for the next four days. 95 degrees and 60% humidity is not a fun combination. I have in my mind to take 3 zero days in a row somewhere fun, and there’s a $12 train into Washington DC from here. So very tempting. Would even give Elliot and Lauren the chance to make up most of the 70 miles they are behind. It’s supposed to be back down to the low 80s in a few days, but something tells me this won’t be the last heat wave. Gonna hold out on taking m vacation until I’m farther North. Tonight I’ll settle for a bed and some AC, tomorrow I’ll brave the heat.
