---
day: 100
date: 2013-08-11
title: "William Brian Memorial Shelter to Graymoor Spiritual Center"
location: "Graymoor Spiritual Center"
lat: 41.35014463384724
lng: -73.92108490149522
mile: null
photos:
  - 08-11-1514.jpg
  - 08-11-1515.jpg
  - 08-11-1517.jpg
  - 08-11-1518.jpg
  - 08-11-1519.jpg
  - 08-11-1520.jpg
  - 08-11-1522.jpg
  - 08-11-1523.jpg
  - 08-11-1524.jpg
  - 08-11-1525.jpg
  - 08-11-1526.jpg
  - 08-11-1527.jpg
  - 08-11-1528.jpg
  - 08-11-1530.jpg
  - 08-11-1532.jpg
  - 08-11-1533.jpg
  - 08-11-1534.jpg
  - 08-11-1536.jpg
  - 08-11-1537.jpg
  - 08-11-1538.jpg
  - 08-11-1539.jpg
  - 08-11-1540.jpg
  - 08-11-1541.jpg
  - 08-11-1542.jpg
  - 08-11-1544.jpg
  - 08-11-1545.jpg
  - 08-11-1546.jpg
  - 08-11-1547.jpg
  - 08-11-1548.jpg
  - 08-11-1549.jpg
  - 08-11-1550.jpg
  - 08-11-1551.jpg
  - 08-11-1552.jpg
  - 08-11-1553.jpg
  - 08-11-1554.jpg
  - 08-11-1555.jpg
  - 08-11-1556.jpg
  - 08-11-1557.jpg
  - 08-11-1558.jpg
  - 08-11-1559.jpg
  - 08-11-1560.jpg
  - 08-11-1562.jpg
---

To Katahdin: 780.1

We (THF) tried to sleep in a bit today, but really it’s hard to sleep in out here. Instead we just took a long time getting ready. It was one of the coolest mornings since Georgia – I was glad I had my long-johns from my mail drop yesterday. Just a few miles into the day we came to a road with a mileage sign: New York City 43 Miles. We had a big steep climb up from that highway but were rewarded with a couple views of that iconic skyline.

Of course being so close to nyc means being close to civilization and a lot of people. The main view of the skyline came from the area near a watchtower in the state park. Unfortunately today was Sunday and the crowds were out in full force. We stopped for lunch near the tower though and spent most of it people watching and lamenting our inevitable return to society, now just about two months away. The tower itself was locked but there was still a good overlook where the city skyline was visible far in the distance. A unique perspective, not like what’s seen in pictures – here every building was just a gray shape, but distinct buildings were still visible – Freedom Tower stood out above Manhattan.

Next up on an action packed day was a trip to the Bear Mountain Recreation Area. We climbed down from the tower passing all kinds of tourists and day hikers along the way, eventually arriving at the park. It felt like Disneyland. There was a lake with paddle-boats, and probably a thousand people spread out around it on picnic tables, grass, playgrounds, lawn chairs, walls, and whatever else they could sit on. The trail ran right through it all, there was even a blaze on a wooden beam that enclosed the playground. I think we all felt a bit out of place, but that didn’t stop me from hitting up the snack bar. I had awesome timing too; they were out of fries for the chicken finger basket so instead of 3 chicken strips and fries they gave me 6 strips!

After devouring that afternoon snack we followed the trail away from the lake and into the zoo! Yep the AT goes right through a zoo. It’s a small one, free to enter, but the bear cage holds the distinction of being the lowest elevation point on the whole trail. The far side of the zoo was right near the bridge leading us across the great Hudson River. We faced another brutally steep climb on the other side, and now the afternoon sun was out in full force. The abrupt ups and downs of NY can really wear you out.

After the zoo we thought we were away from civilization for a while, but there turned out to be one more amazing location today. Just about one mile before our final destination we came upon a road and there was a shell station right there along the trail. It was listed in the guidebook but we hadn’t looked closely and weren’t expecting it. It wasn’t an ordinary Shell station though, this one was equipped with a 24 hour deli serving Boar’s Head meats and cheeses. I had an Everroast Chicken cheesesteak and we divvied up a six pack of beer. I bought a few more items to throw in my food back and we set out to try to so the last mile before it got dark.

Darkness was closing in but we made it. I’m here camping but I’m still not quite sure what the Graymoor Spiritual Life Center is. Some sort of monastery it seems, but the part were at is right next to a baseball field. They have a shelter like structure with benches and tables set up and hikers camp nearby. Nice place to stay considering the trail shelters are few and far between on this section of the trail.
