---
day: 12
date: 2013-05-15
title: "Winding Stair Gap to Wayah Bald Shelter"
location: "Wayah Bald Shelter"
lat: 35.1835
lng: -83.561
mile: null
photos:
  - 05-15-4126.jpg
  - 05-15-4127.jpg
  - 05-15-4128.jpg
  - 05-15-4129.jpg
  - 05-15-4131.jpg
  - 05-15-4132.jpg
  - 05-15-4138.jpg
  - 05-15-4139.jpg
  - 05-15-4140.jpg
  - 05-15-4141.jpg
  - 05-15-4142.jpg
  - 05-15-4143.jpg
  - 05-15-4144.jpg
  - 05-15-4145.jpg
  - 05-15-4146.jpg
  - 05-15-4147.jpg
  - 05-15-4148.jpg
  - 05-15-4149.jpg
  - 05-15-4150.jpg
---

I ended up getting a pretty late start out of Franklin; wasn’t back on the trail until between 12 and 12:30, but the plan was to only do 11 miles or so. I was going to look for a ride out to Winding Stair around 10, but as I was checking out of the inn I met two other hikers and we decided to ride together to reduce the fare. One of the guys had not eaten yet so we planned on meeting back at the hotel just after 11 and getting a shuttle. I used the time to make one last stop by the pharmacy to pick up a knee support. The knee was still pretty stiff at night so i figured it couldn’t hurt to have along. Larry the taxi guy was a little late arriving at the hotel but he eventually showed up and delivered us to the trail.

It was a warm day – over 80 – and cloudless, I set out with new boots and my knee wrapped. Took a few minutes to get used to the bulkier and heavier shoes, but I think I made the right call. It was fantastic to be walking normally again and not limping along with half my weight on my trekking poles. I ran into DJ again, as usual passing him during the day, but ending up at the same place at night. I think this is also the third time I’ve passed Tory rather quickly on a long uphill section, but she hikes long into the evening and ends up ahead by sunset.

There was a shelter about 4 miles into the hike, and I got there about 80 minutes after starting. It was hard to believe how fast I was moving, especially since most of it was uphill. There was a second long climb later in the day – up to Wayah Bald and another lookout tower. More green, but this one provided a glimpse into the future – the Smoky’s to the northwest. Just a couple days and a couple big climbs away from entering the park, and what is sure to be one of the best parts of the trail. I spent about half an hour at the watch tower before meandering the last mile of the day downhill to the shelter. Last time I was in a shelter it was about 34 degrees and windy, tonight its a much more comfortable 65 degrees and we’re facing west and the setting sun.
