---
day: 118
title: "Big Branch to Clarendon Shelter"
location: "Clarendon Shelter"
lat: 43.5236791153357
lng: -72.91260835592381
mile: null
photos: []
---

Woke up in the middle of the night last night and had to stick my head out of the shelter to throw-up. I had been feeling a bit odd the night before but nothing really serious. I felt fine again right away and was able to go right back to sleep. When I woke up I still felt alright, but shortly after finishing my breakfast of oatmeal and a granola bar, that all came back up as well. Once again I felt ok right
away after, just couldn’t keep food down apparently.

We started hiking and it was a pretty average day, I was feeling exhausted all day though. I’m sure a lot of it was the lack of fresh energy from not being able to eat anything. In addition to throwing up what I did eat, I still wasn’t hungry at all. Adding to the rough day was more heat and humidity and a couple climbs. As is normal Landon was only interested in doing as many miles as possible, we had agreed to try to find a spot to camp between shelters, but when we got to Clarendon I was totally beat and Miranda’s feet were hurting. There was a big discussion that eventually ended with Landon and Miranda separating for the first time on the trail – Landon continued on trying to do 6 miles to the next shelter before dark, Miranda and I stayed at Clarendon. The two of us will have a longer day tomorrow, but we’ll all be meeting up in Killington at the end of the day.
