---
day: 144
title: "Rangeley, ME to Orbeton Stream"
location: "Orbeton Stream"
lat: 44.964
lng: -70.6473
mile: null
photos: []
---

To Katahdin: 207

Miranda was much improved after two days rest and the first dose of metronidazole so we’re back underway, closing in on Katahdin. Very ready for the end now. After two days off in a comfortable bed and breakfast, eating real food for over 48 hours straight, finally getting to see the new Star Trek, playing more MTG, watching football, and being indoors when the high outside was about 40 degrees, returning to civilization, especially in the desert, will be amazing. With thoughts like that in mind I started climbing the Saddlebacks this morning. It was a cool day, not as cold as yesterday, I think the forecast for Rangeley was about 50 degrees. Of course town is at 1500 feet, Saddleback Mountain almost 4200 and totally exposed. Even before the summit the wind was rampaging across the alpine landscape, whipping the light drizzle falling from the sky into a sideways frenzy. It felt like being back in the Whites, except this was worse weather than anything we experienced there, fortunately the terrain in Maine is more forgiving. And there was ice. Not on the ground but all over the small alpine brush and short trees. Everything green was crystallized, frozen in place barely into autumn.

We weren’t expecting such ferocious winds and cold, or to be above treeline for so long. We stopped somewhere between the summit of Saddleback Mountain and The Horn to add another layer of clothing and get a quick snack. After The Horn, 1.6 miles from Saddleback, the wind died away rather abruptly and that took away most of the chill. 50 degrees by itself isn’t bad, 50 degrees with 40 mph winds is pretty uncomfortable. The last peak of the range was Saddleback Junior; the most notable thing here was that I snapped one of trekking poles in half catching a fall near the summit. Covered by Leki’s warranty, but now we’re in rural Maine with no outfitters nearby – don’t know how long I’ll have to go without.

Made it down the mountain without them though. We ended up camping along a woods road near a stream and waterfall. Still not getting done as many miles as planned usually, gonna need a big day tomorrow to get to Stratton.
