---
day: 5
date: 2013-05-08
title: "Helen, Georgia"
location: "Helen, Georgia"
lat: 34.7004
lng: -83.7299
mile: null
photos:
  - 05-08-4172.jpg
  - 05-08-4173.jpg
---

Sleeping on a real bed after four days on the trail was a very welcome comfort. Easily the most restful night yet. I began my first zero day with a breakfast of scrambled eggs, sausage, bacon, hash browns, and biscuits & gravy. I ended up walking a bit more than I would like by going around town, first to the dollar store for resupply and then on an adventure to find the “outfitter.” I was considering looking at replacing my trail runners with boots already but after walking about a mile the outfitter turned out to be nothing more than a fishing shop. One of the fishermen was good enough to provide a ride back to the inn.

Kirin, Liz, and Lets Party headed back to the trail around noon. Captain Slow, Shakes, Kitch, DJ and I were all staying another night before tackling what looks to be the toughest day on the Georgia, AT – 2 steep mountains before the first shelter 6 miles out of Unicoi Gap. I got a fresh supply of Vitamin-i (ibuprofen) at the dollar store as well as some bengay and ace bandages. On our way into town yesterday our shuttle driver Karen told us about a country grocery store, but she warned of high prices and un-hiker-friendly selection. We decided to stop by anyway, and I discovered the real reason for Karen’s advice: the produce guy at the store gives hikers free rides back to the trail! Turns out the store was awesome too, all wooden shelves, very rustic with great stuff like whole dried peaches and freshly made raspberry strudel and cinnamon rolls.

After the trek around town I spent most of the day laying in bed with my foot smeared with icy-hot cream, wrapped, and elevated on a stack of bath towels. By the evening it was feeling much better; still a bit sore but less swollen, and I could walk almost pain free. I went across the street to Wendy’s for a Baconator and vanilla frosty. The girl taking orders provided the heaviest dosage of Southern dialect I’ve experienced in person. In a span of about thirty seconds I heard a half dozen ‘yall’s and a “He musta dun takin’ it.” The food was great – Too bad you can’t have juicy bacon burgers, milkshakes, and be out in the woods at the same time! After a couple days hanging out with this group I’m ready for some alone time. Might have to skip the next shelter and bust out the tent in the next night or two.
