---
day: 130
date: 2013-09-10
title: "Galehead Hut to Ethan Pond"
location: "Ethan Pond"
lat: 44.177387159429
lng: -71.4267972577496
mile: null
photos:
  - 09-10-731.jpg
  - 09-10-732.jpg
  - 09-10-733.jpg
  - 09-10-734.jpg
  - 09-10-735.jpg
  - 09-10-736.jpg
  - 09-10-737.jpg
  - 09-10-738.jpg
  - 09-10-742.jpg
  - 09-10-743.jpg
  - 09-10-744.jpg
  - 09-10-745.jpg
  - 09-10-746.jpg
  - 09-10-747.jpg
  - 09-10-748.jpg
  - 09-10-749.jpg
  - 09-10-750.jpg
  - 09-10-752.jpg
  - 09-10-753.jpg
  - 09-10-754.jpg
  - 09-10-755.jpg
  - 09-10-756.jpg
  - 09-10-757.jpg
  - 09-10-758.jpg
  - 09-10-759.jpg
  - 09-10-760.jpg
  - 09-10-761.jpg
  - 09-10-762.jpg
  - 09-10-763.jpg
  - 09-10-764.jpg
  - 09-10-768.jpg
  - 09-10-769.jpg
  - 09-10-770.jpg
  - 09-10-771.jpg
  - 09-10-772.jpg
  - 09-10-773.jpg
  - 09-10-774.jpg
  - 09-10-775.jpg
  - 09-10-776.jpg
  - 09-10-777.jpg
  - 09-10-778.jpg
  - 09-10-779.jpg
  - 09-10-780.jpg
  - 09-10-781.jpg
  - 09-10-782.jpg
  - 09-10-783.jpg
  - 09-10-784.jpg
  - 09-10-785.jpg
---

To Katahdin: 348 miles

Guest Writer: Miranda Jones pretending to be me!

Woke up this morning to a more pleasant hut crew member, Alana, greeting us with a smile and a tap on the feet. After packing up and expecting to be sent outside again, we were relieved when she told us we didn’t have to leave and could wait inside where it was warm. The guests sped through breakfast now that they were aware of our situation. They were happy to pass off their leftovers. Our morning experience at the hut was much more pleasant than our evening one. After finishing our chores we set out for the day. The peak we were climbing had heavy fog and we were expecting thunderstorms at any time. Luckily the storms never hit, but the fog obscured our views for the day. The trail was much easier and we made it over half way by 1:00 with only a drizzle. We took a snack break at another hut and Miranda gave me part 2 of my birthday present; a handmade coupon book of camp chores and even a foot massage! After the hut, the trail flattened out to a level we haven’t seen in SO LONG! We were so giddy. Miranda was in the middle of making a comment about how this must be a trail for beginners when she slipped on the only rock in the trail and fell right on her butt! I couldn’t stop laughing! I’m pretty sure she fell just to get a laugh out of me, knowing how much I’d love the irony. The things she does for me. After the glorious flat trail we arrived at the shelter early in the day and had time to relax. We almost didn’t know what to do with ourselves. The shelter sits just off shore of a beautiful pond….that really seems more like a lake. A few of the trees have started changing from green to red and make a beautiful backdrop. Today was great, but we have higher mountains to climb in the morning.
