---
day: 146
date: 2013-09-26
title: "Stratton, ME to Safford Notch"
location: "Safford Notch"
lat: 45.145483609519594
lng: -70.25976599355826
mile: null
photos:
  - 09-26-130.jpg
  - 09-26-132.jpg
  - 09-26-133.jpg
  - 09-26-134.jpg
  - 09-26-135.jpg
  - 09-26-136.jpg
  - 09-26-137.jpg
  - 09-26-138.jpg
  - 09-26-139.jpg
  - 09-26-140.jpg
  - 09-26-141.jpg
  - 09-26-142.jpg
  - 09-26-143.jpg
  - 09-26-144.jpg
  - 09-26-145.jpg
  - 09-26-146.jpg
  - 09-26-147.jpg
  - 09-26-148.jpg
  - 09-26-149.jpg
  - 09-26-150.jpg
---

Two thousand miles. Sounds awesome, but it doesn’t feel as exciting as I expected. Nothing really matters now except the final mountain. Today marked the end of a rough three day stretch through some of Maine’s more famous mountains – Tuesday was the Saddlebacks, yesterday Sugarloaf, and today the Bigelows. Each day brought rugged climbs, several 4000+ foot peaks, chilly wind, and rocky descents. Tonight though we camp knowing that today was the last time above 4000 feet until Katahdin, that there’s only one more mountain range reaching 3000 feet, and the vast majority of the rest of the trail is much closer to 1000 feet and often almost flat for miles at a time. Could be standing on Katahdin in as few as 10 more days.

This morning we had to do a lot of the town chores we usually do the night we arrive. Went back to the laundry, had opened at 7, everything normal inside, found the hours sign posted INSIDE the room. Got the clean clothes, sent home broken trekking pole, had breakfast, resupplied. Got another quick ride back to the trail. Friendly Mainers must like hikers! Only a bit over 10 miles today with our long day yesterday and chores this morning. A slow 10 though, finishing up those mountains. The worst part has been the dichotomy between weather forecasts and weather reality. Forecast the last two days has been “mostly sunny.” Reality: Maybe 10 minutes total of sun not blocked by an overwhelming massive gray cloud. Three awesome chains of mountain peaks and no real views to show. Always just up in a cloud, blowing wind, and a veil of gray. Nice campsite tonight, got another fire going. Matt Munchies is here with us, as is Sir Stooge who I hadn’t seen since Erwin, so many months ago.
