---
day: 13
date: 2013-05-16
title: "Wayah Bald Shelter to Nantahala Outdoor Center"
location: "Nantahala Outdoor Center"
lat: 35.3315368570794
lng: -83.59170664711158
mile: null
photos:
  - 05-16-4102.jpg
  - 05-16-4103.jpg
  - 05-16-4104.jpg
  - 05-16-4105.jpg
  - 05-16-4106.jpg
  - 05-16-4107.jpg
  - 05-16-4111.jpg
  - 05-16-4113.jpg
  - 05-16-4115.jpg
  - 05-16-4116.jpg
  - 05-16-4117.jpg
  - 05-16-4118.jpg
  - 05-16-4119.jpg
  - 05-16-4120.jpg
  - 05-16-4121.jpg
  - 05-16-4122.jpg
  - 05-16-4123.jpg
  - 05-16-4124.jpg
---

I had an awesome entry all typed up on notepad, probably 500 words on this phone with my thumbs, then I hit select all and accidently hit paste instead of copy. It’s 10:30 which these days is past my bedtime so I’ll redo it tomorrow.

I was getting low on water and it was impossible to tell how much farther until the next shelter, spring, or the end of the day at Nantahala Outdoor Center. I was somewhere in the middle of what I’ve heard is the biggest climb down and up on the AT south of New England. It was about 4 miles and a 2300 foot descent over varying terrain and no landmarks along the way to mark progress by. Id already done about 12 miles before starting the big downhill and the bottoms of my feet were worn out. After thinking I must be close for 30 minutes or so I finally heard a car engine through the trees. I made it the rest of the way down the mountain, arriving at NOC around 6 after starting the day at 8:30 and doing a total of over 5500 feet downhill. The biggest day yet. I got a bunk, but was disappointed to find the bunkhouse was basically half a mile away and up more steep hills. Even the shower is located down a steep dirt path, I ended up going there towel around my neck, trekking poles in hand, wearing only running shorts and pink flip flops!

This NOC place is basically a bunch of bunkhouses and cabins with an assortment of outdoor activities – water rafting, tubing, ziplines, etc. Of course they have restaurants, I went to the River’s End for dinner. Amazing tater-tots, ice cold root-beer, ham turkey BLT sandwich for dinner. And, since I’d been craving something cold, a Cool Jewel for dessert – ice cream coated in granola/oatmeal drenched with chocolate and caramel.

Of course the long downhill of today is mirrored by an even longer climb back up the other side tomorrow. I was lucky enough to get a bunkroom with me and three empty bunks, so i should sleep well. Probably going to linger around here tomorrow and only do the 6 miles straight up, out of the valley, and to the first shelter tomorrow.
