---
day: 6
date: 2013-05-09
title: "Unicoi Gap to Swag of the Blueridge"
location: "Swag of the Blueridge"
lat: 34.8362
lng: -83.6599
mile: null
photos:
  - 05-09-4170.jpg
  - 05-09-4171.jpg
---

Spending a whole day off was rejuvenating. I awoke to find my foot feeling better and I was ready to get back on the trail. First I went to the post office to send home a few small items, sunglasses, a paper journal, and a cool map of the Georgia AT found in a hiker box at the hotel. I thought I might not be able to use the phone to do the journal all the time so I brought a backup but now it doesnt seem necessary. Kitch, DJ, and I got a ride back to the trail from the guy at Bettys Country Store and started tackling the first climb shortly after 11:30.

The sun was out in full force today, the forecast high was 81 degrees. Quite a change from the first few days of cold rain. I made short work of the first mountain barely needing to stop at all on one of the longest, steepest climbs yet. It was right back down into Indian Grave Gap and then another similar climb up to Trey Mountain. This one took a bit longer mostly because it was now the hottest part of the day. There was some decent views of the densely forested neighboring mountains and valleys from both of these peaks. I had the option of staying at the shelter just a ways down from the top of Trey, but I thought my feet were still doing OK and I wanted to get ahead of the group so I kept going and ended up at a campsite not shown on the guidebook. It’s right on the trail at a sign that reads “Swag of the Blueridge.” Turns out that while the tendonitis in the right foot seems to be dissipating, it’s happening (to a smaller degree) in the left foot now. Even with all the injury issues and the off day, I’m about 62 miles in after 6 days and only about 7 miles behind the original goal for day 6. Tonight will be my first night sleeping on the trail without a roof over my head. Also, I had to hang my own bear bag. The Georgia-North Carolina border is just over 15 miles away and I am looking forward to the psychological boost of conquering the first of 14 states. They say that this northern Georgia piece of the AT is one of the top 5 most difficult stretches of the entire trail, if I make it out after a week of feet that hurt to bend and an aching knee I should be in good shape the rest of the way.
