---
day: 105
date: 2013-08-16
title: "Pine Swamp Brook to Riga Shelter"
location: "Riga Shelter"
lat: 42.01564174757855
lng: -73.45191071110185
mile: null
photos:
  - 08-16-1440.jpg
  - 08-16-1441.jpg
  - 08-16-1442.jpg
  - 08-16-1443.jpg
  - 08-16-1444.jpg
  - 08-16-1445.jpg
  - 08-16-1446.jpg
  - 08-16-1447.jpg
  - 08-16-1448.jpg
  - 08-16-1449.jpg
  - 08-16-1451.jpg
  - 08-16-1452.jpg
  - 08-16-1453.jpg
  - 08-16-1454.jpg
  - 08-16-1455.jpg
  - 08-16-1457.jpg
  - 08-16-1458.jpg
  - 08-16-1459.jpg
---

Just a few tenths of a mile away from the 1500 mile mark tonight. It is so incredible to look at a map now and think I’ve walked from Georgia all the way here to Connecticut. Already the nights are getting cold even though the days are still warm. Last night felt like it was probably about 40 degrees.

Today started out with a few quick ups and downs and then a pretty long road walk across a river and back into the woods. We were on our into Salisbury today, although not to spend the night this time. Miranda had a mail drop to pick up, we were going to get dinner too, and then walk three more miles to a shelter. Salisbury turned out to be another upscale New England town, probably a bit more touristy than Kent. We had dinner at the grocery store deli – they made good sandwiches and ok pizza. One of the interesting things about Salisbury was that there was a water spigot for hikers to use on the way out of town, but it was right in the middle of the cemetery. We filled up there and continued the last 3.7 miles, almost all uphill, to Riga shelter.

There were a couple of views today, one on he way up to the shelter, the other is actually at the shelter. It was pretty late again on the way into camp and if the first overlook had been facing West we would have had quite a sunset. The shelter faces east though, might have a good look at a sunrise tomorrow.
