---
day: 122
title: "Thistle Hill to Hanover, NH"
location: "Hanover, NH"
lat: null
lng: null
mile: null
photos: []
---

A really wet night and wet morning left everything dirty and the trails muddy. Of course we were ready to get into town, and luckily it wasn’t a full day of climbing. It was hard getting up and back on the trail though. Still feeling pretty worn out overall. I started out with rain gear on but that didn’t last long. It’s that nasty combination of wet weather but still warm temperatures and climbing hills. There was a nice general store / deli right on the trail about 5 miles into the day where we were able to stop and grab a sandwich for an early lunch. I was able to get my first Moxie of the trail here too, an old soda favorite from the vacations to Maine. Landon and Miranda tried one too – Landon liked it at first then decided against it, Miranda thought it tasted like carbonated cough syrup.

There was a decently long but gradual climb after our lunch break but it went by quickly and before long we emerged onto the road where we began one of the longest road walk stretches of the trail, including crossing the Vermont/New Hampshire state line. Just across the border we arrived on the campus of Dartmouth in Hanover, NH. Of course there was the typical college town collection of shops and restaurants right near by. We had dinner at the Salt Hill Pub before getting picked up for our stay at Tiggers Tree House. The pub food was good and our ride came just as it was starting to rain again. Tiggers Treehouse isn’t really a treehouse, just the home of Ralph and Karen who put up hikers in their place, along with giving free rides anywhere nearby. We got in pretty late, but we had time to watch World’s Greatest Dad and found out it was a rather strange movie.
