---
day: 10
date: 2013-05-13
title: "Carter Gap Shelter to Winding Stair Gap"
location: "Winding Stair Gap"
lat: 35.122471479928755
lng: -83.54402647156878
mile: null
photos:
  - 05-13-4153.jpg
  - 05-13-4155.jpg
  - 05-13-4156.jpg
  - 05-13-4159.jpg
  - 05-13-4160.jpg
  - 05-13-4161.jpg
  - 05-13-4163.jpg
---

It got down around freezing as predicted and the wind was ripping through the valley as well. There wasn’t much going on at the shelter last night and I knew I had a big day coming up so I was in the sleeping bag around 8:00, while it was still quite light out. I continued reading The Simarillion on my Kindle as it grew dark. I got to sleep on e it got dark and slept pretty well. It was probably right around freezing when I woke up around 7. Very hard to get up and get going when it’s that cold outside and so warm inside the sleeping bag, I laid about a while, but nothing warms you up like getting moving, so I forced myself to crawl out of the bag. I slept in my hiking clothes so I just put on shoes and started packing. I even skipped cooking any hot food (oatmeal) because I didn’t want to stand around waiting for icy water to boil. I went for my remaining trio of oatmeal apple cream pies, but they were almost frozen too so I ate one, put the others in my pocket and set out on the trail right at 8.

The shelter was in a valley, hidden from the morning sun and the first couple of miles were shaded as well. I wore socks as gloves to keep my hands warm until I came up out of the gap. The first six miles were smooth and once I was warmed up I started making good time. I stopped somewhere along the way to eat the now body-heat warmed oatmeal pies. The big climb of the day began about five miles in. You know you’re in for a serious mountain you’re presented with a “bypass trail” option! It seems like North Carolina has fewer ups and downs, but the ups and downs are bigger and more sustained. This one was Albert Mountain, and after about 3/4 mile of rough rocky ascent along a narrow trail with a steep falloff to the right, the final 1/4 mile seemed like it was straight up. It kind of alternated between boulders, ramp, and stairs, but all were steep. The view from the top was easily the best yet on the AT. There’s a fire-tower right on the summit granting a vantage point high above the trees. Nothing but green mountains and valleys in a 360 degree arc.

After Albert I still had ten miles to cover to get to Winding Stair Gap and head into Franklin. It was a pretty uneventful afternoon, I didn’t pass or get passed by any other Northbound hikers, and saw only two other people. I spent a good amount of time considering whether or not I should take a zero day again already. On one hand a day off would hopefully wipe out the last remnants of these injuries and there’s a nice outfitter so I could upgrade some gear. I want at least one more compression sack, and maybe crocs that i can wear with socks, but they’d have to be pink – everyone thinks they’re awesome! On the other hand, I can only afford three zero days per month, and that’s assuming Katahdin stays open as late as possible and there’s no early snow. I’m leaning toward a zero now, and continuing to make up time over the long haul.

There were a couple minor climbs toward the end of the day, the last mountain felt so much longer than it actually was. When i started going downhill I started hoping to see the road or a hear a car every time I rounded a bend in the trail. Finally, there was a sign for Winding Stair Gap, but of course there was still almost 1/3 mile between the sign and the road. I made it down around 4:30, so that was 15.9 miles from Carter Gap in 8.5 hours. All I’d had to eat was three oatmeal cream pies and half a (big) bag of peanut M&Ms. I did’t know if i was going to call for a shuttle or hitchhike again, but I got super lucky because as i sat down to figure it out, three hikers emerged from the AT on the other side of the road. Two of them were just passing through but one of them owned one of the two cars at the gap and was heading to Franklin. He offered to give me a ride, and we were off. I’m staying at the Microtel Inn & Suites, and went to dinner at a Pizza Hut right next door. Had a salad and six slices of a large pan pepperoni lovers. Saw the local news while i was eating; the weather guy’s calling for another night of freezing temperatures – glad I’ll be inside for this one.

Oh, almost forgot to mention another milestone today – over the 100 mile mark! 109.8 miles down, about 2075 to go!
